A new enchantment called Lunge just got
added to Minecraft and it's really
strong. Here's everything you need to
know about it. The Lunge enchantment can
be applied to the new spear weapon and
when the player attacks, it launches the
player forward. It doesn't work while
swimming in water or while flying, but
you can lunge forward and then
immediately start flying to gain a lot
of speed. Interestingly enough, it does
work while crawling. The player doesn't
need to be touching the ground to lunge
either, and the player can use it
multiple times while falling. The lunge
enchantment goes to level three,
launching the player further with each
level. Lower tiers of spears have
shorter attack cooldowns, meaning you
can lunge more often than using a higher
tier of spear. But there's a catch.
Every time you lunge, it does durability
to the spear. And the higher level of
lunge, the more durability it uses,
dealing up to 128 durability per lunge.
This means a wooden spear can only lunge
once and a netherite spear 16 times or
around 60 with unbreaking three. And the
lunge enchantment is incompatible with
mending, meaning you only have so many
lunges before you need to repair your
spear. So, diamond spears will probably
be the meta for the lunch since it's
much easier to repair them than
netherite.